EDU-12592: Section override use cases (#1264)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/faststore/docs/customization/building-sections/override-use-cases/adding-an-image-to-the-alert-component.mdx

---
title: 'Adding an image to the Alert component'
---

> This guide illustrates an advanced use case for [`getOverriddenSection`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/overrides-getoverriddensection-function) in FastStore. It focuses on customizing the Alert section's icon to display a custom image as an icon instead. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide illustrates an advanced use case for [`getOverriddenSection`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/overrides-getoverriddensection-function) in FastStore. It focuses on customizing the [Alert](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/building-sections-list-of-native-sections#alert) section's icon to display a custom image as an icon instead. 
```

> ℹ️ For detailed instructions on overriding components, refer to [Overriding native component’s props](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/overrides-component-props) and [Overriding a native component](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/overrides-native-component).

## Context

> - The native Alert section provides an `icon` prop for customization. It only accepts pre-defined icons, but you want more control and flexibility over the displayed content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The native [Alert](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/building-sections-list-of-native-sections#alert) section provides an `icon` prop for customization. It only accepts predefined icons, but you want more control and flexibility over the displayed content.
```

                        ),
                    },
                },
            }),
        []
    );

    return <OverriddenAlert {...otherProps} icon="" />;
    }
    ```

    - This function receives the `AlertWithImageProps`.
    - It destructures the `src` prop containing the image source and remaining props using the spread operator (`...otherProps`).
    - The core functionality lies within the `useMemo` hook.
      - It defines the `OverriddenAlert` constant using `getOverriddenSection`.
      - The override options specify:
        - **`Section`:** The section to be overridden (Alert).
        - **`components`:** An object containing the override for the Icon component.

    - Inside the Icon override:
      - **`Component`:** A function returning an `Image` component. This displays the image specified by the `src` prop.
      - **`width`** and **`height`:** Optional props to set the size of the image.

    - The use of `useMemo` ensures this override is only created once, improving performance.
    - The function returns the `OverriddenAlert` component, spreading the `otherProps` and setting the `icon` prop to `noop` (effectively disabling the default icon behavior).

>     > ℹ️ For further details on code implementation, see the `AlertWithImage` folder available in the playground.store repository.

Reviewer: add link

> 6. Add the section to the Headless CMS by following the instructions available for sending components to the Headless CMS.

Reviewer: which instructions?

Author: Instructions from the documentation [syncing components to the Headless CMS](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/overrides-syncing-components-with-the-headless-cms). Just added the link there.

> The following schema was used as an example:

Reviewer: should this be intented?

Author: Yes, fixed!

    ```json 
    [
        {
        "name": "AlertWithImage",
        "schema": {
        "title": "Alert with image",
        "description": "Add an Alert that has an Image as an icon",
        "type": "object",
        "required": ["src", "content", "dismissible"],
        "properties": {
            "src": {
            "type": "string",
            "title": "Image source",
            "description": "Source of the Alert icon image"
            },
            "content": { "type": "string", "title": "Content" },
            "link": {
            "title": "Link",
            "type": "object",
            "properties": {
                "text": { "type": "string", "title": "Link Text" },
                "to": { "type": "string", "title": "Action link" }
            }
            },
            "dismissible": {
            "type": "boolean",
            "default": false,
            "title": "Is dismissible?"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ]

>     ```

Reviewer: where to use this schema?

Author: I added the location on where it should be used ([`cms/faststore/sections.json`](https://github.com/vtex-sites/playground.store/blob/main/cms/faststore/sections.json#L58-L101)) on [this line](https://github.com/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content/pull/1264/files#diff-acad65f586b9bcb070fb9beda1b3c19ea97558aa2dd61d2c339b382ea4cec62aR108).

> > ℹ️ For further details on code implementation, see the `sections.json` file available in the playground.store repository.

Reviewer: add link

## Results

Once you have [set your development mode](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/headless-cms-previewing-changes-in-development-mode) to see the changes locally, you can see the image as an icon in the alert:

- **Before**
  
  The native Alert displays one of the default icons, the `BellRinging`, following the sentence `Get 15% off today: NEW15! Buy now`.

  ![before- alert-with-image](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/before-custom-alert-image___fbd2316b0a78c7756fcc8523e7e6b181.png) 
  
- **After**
  
  The native Alert was replaced with the custom one, which features a pink image in the form of an icon added through Headless CMS.
  

>   ![after - alert-with-image](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/after-custom-alert-image___c4f735821a289a0fd0ce72947371e154.png)

Reviewer: in my opinion, the banner catches too much attention. it took me a while to see the alert on top and see the icon. i would suggest cropping the image to get only the header and the alert.

Author: Makes sense, and I adjusted the image.

     const { src, alt, ...otherProps } = props;

     const OverriddenAlert = useMemo(
       () =>
         getOverriddenSection({
           Section: AlertSection,
           className: styles.alertWithImage,
           components: {
             Icon: {
               Component: () => (
                 <Image
                   src={props.src}
                   alt={props.alt}
                   width={24}
                   height={24}
                 />
               ),
             },
           },
         }),
       []
     );

     return <OverriddenAlert {...otherProps} icon="" />;
   }
   ```

   - This function receives the `AlertWithImageProps`.
   - It destructures the `src` prop containing the image source and remaining props using the spread operator (`...otherProps`).
   - The core functionality lies within the `useMemo` hook.

     - It defines the `OverriddenAlert` constant using `getOverriddenSection`.
     - The override options specify:
       - **`Section`:** The section to be overridden (Alert).
       - **`components`:** An object containing the override for the Icon component.

   - Inside the Icon override:

>      - **`Component`:** A function returning an `Image` component. This displays the image specified by the `src` prop.

Reviewer 2: It would be great to link this Image Component [doc](https://github.com/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content/pull/1264/files) here, I couldn't find it in the portal.

   - Inside the Icon override:

     - **`Component`:** A function returning an `Image` component. This displays the image specified by the `src` prop.
     - **`width`** and **`height`:** Optional props to set the size of the image.

   - The use of `useMemo` ensures this override is only created once, improving performance.
   - The function returns the `OverriddenAlert` component, spreading the `otherProps` and setting the `icon` prop to `noop` (effectively disabling the default icon behavior).

   > ℹ️ For further details on code implementation, see the [`AlertWithImage`](https://github.com/vtex-sites/playground.store/tree/main/src/components/sections/AlertWithImage) folder available in the [playground.store](https://github.com/vtex-sites/playground.store) repository.

6. Add the section to the Headless CMS by following the instructions available in [syncing components to the Headless CMS](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/overrides-syncing-components-with-the-headless-cms).

    The following schema was used as an example in [`cms/faststore/sections.json`](https://github.com/vtex-sites/playground.store/blob/main/cms/faststore/sections.json#L58-L101):

>     ```json

Reviewer: please reformat the code inside this code block, some properties are not properly indented. it should be like:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "AlertWithImage",
    "schema": {
      "title": "Alert with image",
      "description": "Add an Alert that has an Image as an icon",
      "type": "object",
      "required": [
        "src",
        "content",
        "dismissible"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "src": {
          "type": "string",
          "title": "Image source",
          "description": "Source of the Alert icon image"
        },
        "content": {
          "type": "string",
          "title": "Content"
        },
        "link": {
          "title": "Link",
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "text": {
              "type": "string",
              "title": "Link Text"
            },
            "to": {
              "type": "string",
              "title": "Action link"
            }
          }
        },
        "dismissible": {
          "type": "boolean",
          "default": false,
          "title": "Is dismissible?"
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```
